What's New 102 (#1946)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/whats-new/2022/05/devtools-102.md

![Inspect element tooltip now persists.](devtools-102-images/inspect-element-tooltip-persists.png)

Also, you can now press `Ctrl` to hide the Inspect tool's overlay while you move the mouse pointer over the rendered webpage.

For the history of this feature in the Chromium open-source project, see Issue [1316208](https://crbug.com/1316208).

See also:
*  [Persisting the Inspect tool's tooltip and grid color overlay](../../../css/inspect.md#persisting-the-inspect-tools-tooltip-and-grid-color-overlay) in _Analyze pages using the Inspect tool_.
*  [Inspect an element on the page](../../../accessibility/navigation.md#inspect-an-element-on-the-page) in _Navigate DevTools with assistive technology_.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## Improved rendering of controls in high-contrast mode

Reviewer: Controls seems a little vague. How about this?

```suggestion
## Improved rendering of dropdown menus, buttons, and icons in high-contrast mode
```

---
title: What's new in DevTools (Microsoft Edge 102)
description: "DevTools extension: browser preview device/mode emulation and sourcemaps to debug/edit Sass/React.  Save heap snapshot strings to JSON.  Retainers filters in Memory tool.  Inspect tooltip persists.  Better high-contrast display.  Experiments have Help icons.  Improved Network tool layout. And more."
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.date: 05/24/2022
---
# What's New in DevTools (Microsoft Edge 102)

[!INCLUDE [Microsoft Edge team note for top of What's New](../../includes/edge-whats-new-note.md)]

> 

Reviewer: In addition to the note, can we add a Tip for Build specifically for this What's New like we did here: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/whats-new/2021/05/devtools?

```suggestion
> [!TIP]
> The **Microsoft Build 2022** conference was on May 24-26.  Learn more about new features for memory, performance, and production debugging in the DevTools and new capabilities in the web platform for PWAs in the following videos:
> [Tips for debugging memory, performance, & production issues](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hdrR0QwXpuc)
> [Microsoft Edge | Build 2022: Enriching desktop experiences with the power and reach of the web](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ahO5nePl4BQ)
```

![In the 'Filter edges' dropdown menu, 'Hide cycled' is not selected.](devtools-102-images/filters-retainers-memory-tool-no-hide-cycled.png)

In the following image, in the **Filter edges** dropdown menu, **Hide cycled** is selected, so the cycled node is not displayed:

![In the 'Filter edges' dropdown menu, 'Hide cycled' is selected.](devtools-102-images/filters-retainers-memory-tool-hide-cycled.png)

_Cycles_ are nodes that appear at least twice in a retainer path.
One appearance of a node is earlier in the retainer path, and other appearances of that node are later in the retainer path.
To free up memory, it's most important to remove the occurrence of the node which appears first in the retainer path.
The second and potentially subsequent appearances of the node are still displayed in the **Retainers** section.

_Internal nodes_ are objects that are specific to V8 (the JavaScript engine in Microsoft Edge).  Internal nodes are also displayed in the **Retainers** section.

See also:
* [Cycles](../../../memory-problems/memory-101.md#cycles) in _Memory terminology_.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## Improved Inspect tool accessibility: The Inspect element tooltip now persists until you dismiss it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The Inspect element tooltip now persists until you dismiss it
```

<!-- Title: Improving the Inspect element tooltip -->
<!-- Subtitle: The Inspect element tooltip now persists until you dismiss it, improving accessibility and ease of use. -->

> Previously, in the **Elements** tool, the hover overlay for the node that you selected constantly changed when you used the **Inspect tool** (![Inspect tool icon.](../../../media/inspect-tool-icon-light-theme.png)).  The previous design was difficult to use with a screen magnifier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, in the **Elements** tool, the overlay for the node that you selected only displayed on hover when you used the **Inspect tool** (![Inspect tool icon.](../../../media/inspect-tool-icon-light-theme.png)).  The previous design was difficult to use with a screen magnifier or other assistive technologies.
```

> When using the **Inspect** tool, to keep the node (and overlay) selected,<!--?--> there's now a `Ctrl`+`Alt` key modifier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Microsoft Edge 102, use the `Ctrl`+`Alt` key modifier when using the **Inspect** tool to keep the node selected and overlay displayed.
```

> Now, if you press and hold `Ctrl`+`Alt`, when you move the mouse pointer over the rendered webpage, the existing tooltip and grid color overlay for the Inspect tool remains, as if locked:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, if you press and hold `Ctrl`+`Alt`, when you move the mouse pointer over the rendered webpage, the existing tooltip and grid color overlay for the Inspect tool will remain displayed.
```

<!-- todo: macOS modifiers? -->

![Inspect element tooltip now persists.](devtools-102-images/inspect-element-tooltip-persists.png)

> Also, you can now press `Ctrl`<!--todo: macOS?--> to hide the Inspect tool's tooltip overlay while you move the mouse pointer over the rendered webpage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, you can now press `Ctrl`<!--todo: macOS?--> to hide the Inspect tool's overlay while you move the mouse pointer over the rendered webpage.
```

In previous versions of Microsoft Edge, the following items didn't render correctly in high-contrast mode:
*  Dropdown menus in the **Issues** tool.
*  Buttons in the **Detached Elements** tool.
*  The **Activity Bar** in Focus Mode.

In Microsoft Edge 102, these issues have been fixed.

![Improving accessibility in high contrast mode.](devtools-102-images/accessibility-high-contrast-mode.png)
<!-- Instructions for screenshot
Refer to the GIFs in: PR: Fix high contrast colors in Issues dropdown menus
And the screenshots in: PR: [A11y] Various high contrast fixes

To show the current behavior, put Windows in a contrast theme by opening **Windows settings** > **Accessibility** > **Contrast themes**.
Open DevTools. Not in Focus Mode, take screenshots of the Detached Elements tool and the dropdown menus in the Issues tool. In Focus Mode, take screenshots of the Activity Bar.
-->

<!-- Video recording of feature in action
Refer to the attachments -->

See also:
* [Navigate DevTools with assistive technology](../../../accessibility/navigation.md)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Windows high contrast mode](https://docs.microsoft.com/fluent-ui/web-components/design-system/high-contrast)
```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Learn about experiments in DevTools from Settings

<!-- Title: Help icons for Experiments checkboxes -->
<!-- Subtitle: In Settings > Experiments page, each experimental feature's checkbox has a Help (?) icon next to it for more information.. -->

> In the **Settings** > **Experiments** page, checkboxes now have a **Help** (![Help icon for Settings > Experiments checkboxes.](devtools-102-images/settings-experiments-help-icon.png)) button:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the **Settings** > **Experiments** page, each experiment now has a **Help** (![Help icon for Settings > Experiments checkboxes.](devtools-102-images/settings-experiments-help-icon.png)) button:
```

![Help icons for Settings > Experiments checkboxes.](devtools-102-images/settings-experiments-help-icons.png)

> To get more information about an experimental feature, click a **Help** (![Help icon for Settings > Experiments checkboxes.](devtools-102-images/settings-experiments-help-icon.png)) button.  The **Help** button displays the relevant section of the [Experimental features](../../../experimental-features/index.md) article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get more information about an experimental feature, click the corresponding **Help** (![Help icon for Settings > Experiments checkboxes.](devtools-102-images/settings-experiments-help-icon.png)) button.  The **Help** button displays the relevant section of the [Experimental features](../../../experimental-features/index.md) article.
```

![Inspect element tooltip now persists.](devtools-102-images/inspect-element-tooltip-persists.png)

Also, you can now press `Ctrl` to hide the Inspect tool's overlay while you move the mouse pointer over the rendered webpage.

For the history of this feature in the Chromium open-source project, see Issue [1316208](https://crbug.com/1316208).

See also:
*  [Persisting the Inspect tool's tooltip and grid color overlay](../../../css/inspect.md#persisting-the-inspect-tools-tooltip-and-grid-color-overlay) in _Analyze pages using the Inspect tool_.
*  [Inspect an element on the page](../../../accessibility/navigation.md#inspect-an-element-on-the-page) in _Navigate DevTools with assistive technology_.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## Improving accessibility in high contrast mode

Author: ```suggestion
## Controls are fully rendered in high-contrast mode
```
@zoherghadyali  & Olivia F - make heading more specific?  In what specific way is accessibility improved in high-contrast mode?

Reviewer 2: It's hard to say whether the controls are fully bug-free across the DevTools because the UI is so large, and regressions are especially common in HC mode.  Maybe "Improved rendering of controls in high-contrast mode"?
